content/docs/reference/buildpack-api.md, before:

+++
title="Buildpack API"
weight=2
+++

This specification defines the interface between a buildpack and the environment that runs it.
This API will be used by buildpack authors.

A buildpack must contain three files:

* `buildpack.toml`
* `bin/detect`
* `bin/build`

The two files in `bin/` must be executable. They can be shell scripts written in a language like Bash or they
can be executables compiled from a language like Go.

## `bin/detect`

### Usage

```
bin/detect PLATFORM_DIR BUILD_PLAN
```

### Summary

This entrypoint is used to determine if a buildpack should
run against a given codebase. It will often check for the existence of a particular
file or some configuration indicating what kind of application has been provided.
It accepts two positional arguments:

* `PLATFORM_DIR` - a directory containing platform provided configuration, such as environment variables.
* `BUILD_PLAN` - a string containing the [Build Plan](https://github.com/buildpack/spec/blob/master/buildpack.md#buildpack-plan-toml).

In addition, the working directory is defined as the location of the codebase
the buildpack will execute against.

The executable must return an exit code of `0` if the codebase can be serviced by this buildpack. If the exit code is `0`, the script must print a human-readable name to `stdout`.

### Example

This is a simple example of a buildpack that detects a Python application by
checking for the presence of a `requirements.txt` file:

```
#!/bin/sh

if [ -f requirements.txt ]; then
  echo "Python Buildpack"
  exit 0
else
  exit 1
fi
```

## `bin/build`

### Usage

```
bin/build LAYERS_DIR PLATFORM_DIR BUILD_PLAN
```

This entrypoint transforms a codebase.
It will often resolve dependencies, install binary packages, and compile code.
It accepts three positional arguments:

* `LAYERS_DIR` - a directory that may contain subdirectories representing each layer created by the buildpack in the final image or build cache.
* `PLATFORM_DIR` - a directory containing platform provided configuration, such as environment variables.
* `BUILD_PLAN` - a string containing the [Build Plan](https://github.com/buildpack/spec/blob/master/buildpack.md#buildpack-plan-toml).

In addition, the working directory is defined as the location of the codebase
this buildpack will execute against.

All changes to the codebase in the working directory will be included in the final
image, along with any launch layers created in the `LAYERS_DIR`.

#### Layers

Each directory created by the buildpack under the `LAYERS_DIR` can be used for any
of the following purposes:

* Launch - the directory will be included in the run image as a single layer
* Cache - the directory will be included in the cache
* Build - the directory will be accessible by subsequent buildpacks

A buildpack defines how a layer will by used by creating a `<layer>.toml` with
a name matching the directory it describes in the `LAYERS_DIR`. For example, a
buildpack might create a `$LAYERS_DIR/python` directory and a `$LAYERS_DIR/python.toml`
with the following contents:

```
launch = true
cache = true
build = true
```

In this example, the `python` directory will be included in the run image,
cached for future builds, and will be accessible to subsequent buildpacks.

### Example

This is a simple example of a buildpack that runs Python's `pip` package manager
to resolve dependencies:

```
#!/bin/sh

LAYERS_DIR="$1"

PIP_LAYER="$LAYERS_DIR/pip"
mkdir -p "$PIP_LAYER/modules" "$PIP_LAYER/env"

pip install -r requirements.txt -t "$PIP_LAYER/modules" \
  --install-option="--install-scripts=$PIP_LAYER/bin" \
  --exists-action=w --disable-pip-version-check --no-cache-dir

echo "launch = true" > "$PIP_LAYER.toml"
```

## `buildpack.toml`

A buildpack must contain a `buildpack.toml` file in its root directory.


### Example

```
api = "0.2"

[buildpack]
id = "example.com/python"
version = "1.0"

[[stacks]]
id = "io.buildpacks.stacks.bionic"
```

### Schema

The schema is as follows:
   
- **`api`** _(string, required, current: `0.2`)_\
    The Buildpack API version the buildpack adheres to. Used to ensure [compatibility](#api-compatibility) against
    the [lifecycle][lifecycle].
    
    > Not to be confused with Cloud Foundry or Heroku buildpack versions. This version pertains to the interface
    > between the [buildpack][buildpack] and the [lifecycle][lifecycle] of Cloud Native Buildpacks.

- **`buildpack`** _(required)_\
    Information about the buildpack.

    - **`id`** _(string, required)_\
    A globally unique identifier.
    
    - **`version`** _(string, required)_\
    The version of the buildpack.
    
    - **`clear-env`** _(boolean, optional, default: `false`)_\
    Clears user-defined environment variables when `true` on executions of `bin/detect` and `bin/build`.

- **`stacks`** _(list, optional)_\
    A list of stacks supported by the buildpack.
    _If omitted, `order` list must be present. Cannot be used in conjunction with `order` list._
    
    - **`id`** _(string, required)_\
    The id of the supported stack.
    
    - **`mixins`** _(string list, required)_\
    A list of mixins required on the stack images.
    
- **`order`** _(list, optional)_\
  A list of buildpack groups. This list determines the order in which groups of buildpacks
  will be tested during detection. For the purpose of creating a [meta-buildpack][meta-buildpack]. _If omitted, `stacks` list must be present. Cannot be used in conjunction with `stacks` list._
  
    - **`group`** _(list, required)_\
    A set of buildpack references.
    
        - **`id`** _(string, required)_\
          The identifier of a buildpack from the configuration's top-level `buildpacks` list. Buildpacks with the same ID may
          appear in multiple groups at once but never in the same group.
        
        - **`version`** _(string, required)_\
          The version of the buildpack being referred to.
        
        - **`optional`** _(boolean, optional, default: `false`)_\
          Whether or not this buildpack is optional during detection.
 
- **`metadata`** _(any, optional)_\
    Arbitrary data for buildpack.
 

## API Compatibility

API compatibility is determined using the logic:

`SUBJECT` is the Buildpack API version of the **buildpack**.\
`TARGET` is the Buildpack API version of the **lifecycle**.

-  If the `SUBJECT.major == 0`, then `SUBJECT.minor == TARGET.minor` must be true.
-  If the `SUBJECT.major > 0`, then `SUBJECT.minor < TARGET.minor` must be true.
-  `SUBJECT.major == TARGET.major` must always be true.

For example,

| Buildpack _adheres to_ API Version | Lifecycle _adheres to_ API Version | Compatible?
| --- | --- | ---
| `0.2` | `0.2` | <span class="text-success">yes</span>
| `1.1` | `1.1` | <span class="text-success">yes</span>
| `1.2` | `1.3` | <span class="text-success">yes</span>
| `0.2` | `0.3` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>
| `0.3` | `0.2` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>
| `1.3` | `1.2` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>
| `2.3` | `1.3` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>
| `1.3` | `2.3` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>

 
## Further Reading

You can read the complete [Buildpack API specification on Github](https://github.com/buildpack/spec/blob/master/buildpack.md).

[buildpack]: /docs/concepts/components/buildpack/
[lifecycle]: /docs/concepts/components/lifecycle/
[meta-buildpack]: /docs/concepts/components/buildpack/#meta-buildpack

Commit message:

Add name to buildpack.toml schema
Signed-off-by: Javier Romero <jromero@pivotal.io>

content/docs/reference/buildpack-api.md, after:

+++
title="Buildpack API"
weight=2
+++

This specification defines the interface between a buildpack and the environment that runs it.
This API will be used by buildpack authors.

A buildpack must contain three files:

* `buildpack.toml`
* `bin/detect`
* `bin/build`

The two files in `bin/` must be executable. They can be shell scripts written in a language like Bash or they
can be executables compiled from a language like Go.

## `bin/detect`

### Usage

```
bin/detect PLATFORM_DIR BUILD_PLAN
```

### Summary

This entrypoint is used to determine if a buildpack should
run against a given codebase. It will often check for the existence of a particular
file or some configuration indicating what kind of application has been provided.
It accepts two positional arguments:

* `PLATFORM_DIR` - a directory containing platform provided configuration, such as environment variables.
* `BUILD_PLAN` - a string containing the [Build Plan](https://github.com/buildpack/spec/blob/master/buildpack.md#buildpack-plan-toml).

In addition, the working directory is defined as the location of the codebase
the buildpack will execute against.

The executable must return an exit code of `0` if the codebase can be serviced by this buildpack. If the exit code is `0`, the script must print a human-readable name to `stdout`.

### Example

This is a simple example of a buildpack that detects a Python application by
checking for the presence of a `requirements.txt` file:

```
#!/bin/sh

if [ -f requirements.txt ]; then
  echo "Python Buildpack"
  exit 0
else
  exit 1
fi
```

## `bin/build`

### Usage

```
bin/build LAYERS_DIR PLATFORM_DIR BUILD_PLAN
```

This entrypoint transforms a codebase.
It will often resolve dependencies, install binary packages, and compile code.
It accepts three positional arguments:

* `LAYERS_DIR` - a directory that may contain subdirectories representing each layer created by the buildpack in the final image or build cache.
* `PLATFORM_DIR` - a directory containing platform provided configuration, such as environment variables.
* `BUILD_PLAN` - a string containing the [Build Plan](https://github.com/buildpack/spec/blob/master/buildpack.md#buildpack-plan-toml).

In addition, the working directory is defined as the location of the codebase
this buildpack will execute against.

All changes to the codebase in the working directory will be included in the final
image, along with any launch layers created in the `LAYERS_DIR`.

#### Layers

Each directory created by the buildpack under the `LAYERS_DIR` can be used for any
of the following purposes:

* Launch - the directory will be included in the run image as a single layer
* Cache - the directory will be included in the cache
* Build - the directory will be accessible by subsequent buildpacks

A buildpack defines how a layer will by used by creating a `<layer>.toml` with
a name matching the directory it describes in the `LAYERS_DIR`. For example, a
buildpack might create a `$LAYERS_DIR/python` directory and a `$LAYERS_DIR/python.toml`
with the following contents:

```
launch = true
cache = true
build = true
```

In this example, the `python` directory will be included in the run image,
cached for future builds, and will be accessible to subsequent buildpacks.

### Example

This is a simple example of a buildpack that runs Python's `pip` package manager
to resolve dependencies:

```
#!/bin/sh

LAYERS_DIR="$1"

PIP_LAYER="$LAYERS_DIR/pip"
mkdir -p "$PIP_LAYER/modules" "$PIP_LAYER/env"

pip install -r requirements.txt -t "$PIP_LAYER/modules" \
  --install-option="--install-scripts=$PIP_LAYER/bin" \
  --exists-action=w --disable-pip-version-check --no-cache-dir

echo "launch = true" > "$PIP_LAYER.toml"
```

## `buildpack.toml`

A buildpack must contain a `buildpack.toml` file in its root directory.


### Example

```
api = "0.2"

[buildpack]
id = "example.com/python"
version = "1.0"

[[stacks]]
id = "io.buildpacks.stacks.bionic"
```

### Schema

The schema is as follows:
   
- **`api`** _(string, required, current: `0.2`)_\
    The Buildpack API version the buildpack adheres to. Used to ensure [compatibility](#api-compatibility) against
    the [lifecycle][lifecycle].

    > Not to be confused with Cloud Foundry or Heroku buildpack versions. This version pertains to the interface
    > between the [buildpack][buildpack] and the [lifecycle][lifecycle] of Cloud Native Buildpacks.

- **`buildpack`** _(required)_\
    Information about the buildpack.

    - **`id`** _(string, required)_\
    A globally unique identifier.

    - **`version`** _(string, required)_\
    The version of the buildpack.
    
    - **`name`** _(string, required)_\
    Human readable name.

    - **`clear-env`** _(boolean, optional, default: `false`)_\
    Clears user-defined environment variables when `true` on executions of `bin/detect` and `bin/build`.

- **`stacks`** _(list, optional)_\
    A list of stacks supported by the buildpack.
    _If omitted, `order` list must be present. Cannot be used in conjunction with `order` list._

    - **`id`** _(string, required)_\
    The id of the supported stack.

    - **`mixins`** _(string list, required)_\
    A list of mixins required on the stack images.

- **`order`** _(list, optional)_\
  A list of buildpack groups for the purpose of creating a [meta-buildpack][meta-buildpack]. This list determines the
  order in which groups of buildpacks will be tested during detection. _If omitted, `stacks` list must be present.
  Cannot be used in conjunction with `stacks` list._
  
    - **`group`** _(list, required)_\
    A list of buildpack references.

        - **`id`** _(string, required)_\
          The identifier of a buildpack being referred to.
          Buildpacks with the same ID may appear in multiple groups at once but never in the same group.

        - **`version`** _(string, required)_\
          The version of the buildpack being referred to.
    
        - **`optional`** _(boolean, optional, default: `false`)_\
          Whether or not this buildpack is optional during detection.
 
- **`metadata`** _(any, optional)_\
    Arbitrary data for buildpack.
 

## API Compatibility

API compatibility is determined using the logic:

`SUBJECT` is the Buildpack API version of the **buildpack**.\
`TARGET` is the Buildpack API version of the **lifecycle**.

-  If the `SUBJECT.major == 0`, then `SUBJECT.minor == TARGET.minor` must be true.
-  If the `SUBJECT.major > 0`, then `SUBJECT.minor < TARGET.minor` must be true.
-  `SUBJECT.major == TARGET.major` must always be true.

For example,

| Buildpack _adheres to_ API Version | Lifecycle _adheres to_ API Version | Compatible?
| --- | --- | ---
| `0.2` | `0.2` | <span class="text-success">yes</span>
| `1.1` | `1.1` | <span class="text-success">yes</span>
| `1.2` | `1.3` | <span class="text-success">yes</span>
| `0.2` | `0.3` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>
| `0.3` | `0.2` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>
| `1.3` | `1.2` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>
| `2.3` | `1.3` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>
| `1.3` | `2.3` | <span class="text-muted">no</span>

 
## Further Reading

You can read the complete [Buildpack API specification on Github](https://github.com/buildpack/spec/blob/master/buildpack.md).

[buildpack]: /docs/concepts/components/buildpack/
[lifecycle]: /docs/concepts/components/lifecycle/
[meta-buildpack]: /docs/concepts/components/buildpack/#meta-buildpack
